have you ever seen a big red no running
sign at a public pool for the most part
the pace on the deck reflects a
statement but while the sign accurately
describes the patrons movements isn't it
true that people are walking because the
sign tells them no running
so is this sign portraying the pools
environment or is it doing something
else something more powerful the
difference between a statement that
describes and one that commands is an
idea developed by British linguist JL
Austin he defines this distinction as
two separate parts of speech constitutes
and performative z' constitutes are
sentences that describe something as
true or false and performative are
sentences that denote an action in other
words a constitute
is and a performative does to help us
distinguish these two parts of speech
let's start by examining constitutes
around the park outside the pool the
first sign we encounter says the park
closes at 6:00 p.m. after checking with
a friendly park official that the park
does indeed closed at 6:00 we can
confirm that this statement is a true
constant 'iv nearby there's a man on a
bench with a newspaper and the headline
reads heatwave however the sky is cloudy
and it feels quite chilly today's
headline is a false constant 'iv as it
has proven to be incorrect before the
rain starts to fall let's throw away our
can of soda the blue trash bin that says
recycle it's a performative performative
ZAR sentences that are meant to inspire
actions rather than conveying a message
it acts upon the world it does something
in this case the performative of recycle
is requesting people to put their trash
into the proper receptacle words not
only bring about actions sometimes words
themselves are actions this is what is
known as speech acts
these actions include but are not
limited to ordering promising
apologizing warning sentencing
christening and even marrying take a
look at that wedding near the gazebo the
couple says the words I do the speech
act here are the words I do these words
cause them to marry one another I do has
acted upon them and profoundly changed
their world how
ever performative x' depend on context
and reception these are known as
felicity conditions imagine if the mayor
showed up to the wedding and said by the
power vested in me as mayor of the city
I named this gazebo the mayor's pizza
palace his words would be a speech act
by which he named the gazebo and because
he's the mayor the gazebo would be known
by its new name but if someone who isn't
the mayor just a normal passerby decides
to name the gazebo after her favorite
cat the chances are the name would not
change
felicity conditions are the rules under
which the performative can be enacted
these are fairly logical the
performative should have proper
Authority it should be understood it
should be clear and it should be able to
be executed if the performative doesn't
meet these conditions then it doesn't
have the power to denote action but just
because a performative meets its
conditions and is clearly stated doesn't
mean that it's implicitly followed back
at the pool a rowdy group of teenagers
races to the high dive no running does
not seem to have power over them and
they'll have to face the consequences of
breaking this performative they may even
have to force out some performative x'
of their own such as apologizing to the
lifeguard and promising to never run
again maybe the lifeguard will respond
with another performative sentencing
them to be banished from the pool for
the rest of the day after all these
teenagers must learn to respect the
power of words
you